improve(docs): First draft of the API development guidelines (#1805)
infrahq/infra: docs/api/guidelines.md

# API Development Guidelines

## Overview

The purpose of this guide is to help you create REST based APIs which are:
  * simple;
  * cohesive;
  * resource based; and
  * internally consistent

Good APIs can be easily understood by humans, and can be easily implemented
into other software. Resource based APIs are defined by _endpoints_ (resources)
which comprise the _nouns_ of the API, and _methods_ (such as GET, PUT, POST,
etc.) which define the _verbs_.

> This guide only covers REST based APIs, however, there are times when it may be

Reviewer: Should we be mentioning these things here our sticking to a concise description of our API practices?

integration, even if the older version of the API has been deprecated. This
can lead to fragmentation where new consumers of the API use the new version,
but a sizeable amount of integrations stick to using the old version.

## Naming things

Naming resource objects is tricky. What you name the resource may (and
probably will) stick around for a long time. You should:
  * Use simple, concise words;
  * Use unique names (don't overload);
  * Pluralize resources (because they may become collections); and
  * Avoid overly generic names

You should avoid using compound words when naming resources (e.g.
`/v1/access-keys`), however, if you do use a compound word, use kebab case by
joining together words with a '-' instead of using a space.

## Endpoint Hierarchies

When you have determined what resources you will use, you will need to also
determine the paths on which they get exposed. The paths for our current
API tend to be very flat. Some examples include:

| Path                     | Description                    |
| :----------------------- | :----------------------------- |
| /v1/destinations         | Kubernetes resources           |

> | /v1/identities           | Users and machines             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| /v1/identities           | Users                          |
```

| created        | RFC 3339 timestamp | Time a resource was created      |
| expires        | RFC 3339 timestamp | Time a resource expires          |
| id             | string             | UID for a resource               |
| lastSeenAt     | RFC 3339 timestamp | Time a resource was last seen    |
| name           | string             | Name of a resource               |
| privilege      | string             | Role or permission               |
| resource       | string             | Resource name                    |
| subject        | string             | UID for a user or group          |
| updated        | RFC 3339 timestamp | Time a resource was last updated |

If you are creating a compound field name, use lower camel case for the JSON field with the first character
lowercase, and capitalize the first letter of each subsequent word (e.g. thisIsAField). Do not use characters
other that ASCII a-z and A-Z inside of the field name.

### Sequential IDs

When returning a resource, avoid using a sequential ID in the ID field. Using sequential IDs allows
callers to potentially guess a particular resource which can lead to leaking information. We

> have a Polymorphic ID in our `infrahq/infra/api` package which you should use instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use ["Snowflake IDs"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowflake_ID) in our `infrahq/infra/api` package which you should use instead.
```

### Payload Structure

When you are returning a payload, keep the following things in mind:
  * Keep things simple
  * Avoid unnecessary deep nested structures inside of resource payloads
  * If you nest one resource into another resource, make certain that it maintains the same structure as if the resource
    were on its own

## Timestamps

For timestamp fields, we follow [RFC 3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339) which overlaps
with ISO 8601. Timestamps are always stored in in UTC form. The client is responsible for converting any
timestamp from UTC to local time.

Timestamp fields follow the form:

> ```YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.SSSZ```

Reviewer 2: Looks like this renders ok, but is confusing githubs syntax highlighting.

```suggestion
`YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ss.SSSZ`
```

Or maybe add newlines before/after the ```

Author: I'll switch this to single ticks.

  * `[ss]` represents the number of seconds (00 through 59)
  * `[SSS]` represents the number of milliseconds (000 through 999)
  * `Z` denotes that the timestamp is in UTC (zulu time)

## Errors and Status Codes

Always use the appropriate status code and write good error and status messages when
returning a response. Writing good error messages helps the user determine when something
went wrong, and it helps clients determine how to recover properly from an error.

Error messages should never include details about how the internals of the server work;
these tend to be non-sensical and don't help the client recover successfuly from an
issue.

We currently use the following status codes when the API returns:

| Status | Type                  |
| :----- | :---                  |
| 200    | Success               | 
| 201    | Created               |
| 204    | No content            |
| 400    | Bad request           |
| 401    | Unauthorized          |
| 403    | Forbidden             |
| 404    | Not found             |
| 409    | Duplicate             |
| 500    | Internal server error |
| 502    | Bad gateway           |

Currently unused status codes include:

> | Status | Type                  |

Reviewer: These unused status codes feel like they will change, and we probably won't realize to update this document.

| :----- | :---                  |

> | 409    | Conflict              |

Reviewer 2: We use 409, it's in the list above
```suggestion
```

| 429    | Too many requests     |
| 503    | Service unavilable    |

> | 504    | Gateway timeout       | 

Reviewer 2: We use 504, for request timeouts
```suggestion
```

We use a standard format for returning an error:
 
```
{
 "code": <Status code>,
 "message": "<Error message>",
 "fieldErrors": [
  {
   "fieldName": [ "<error1>"...<"errorN">]
  }
 ]
}
```

### Returning a 404 or 403

If a client isn't authenticated or doesn't have access to a particular resource, be careful about returning a

> ```403 Forbidden``` error as it may leak information about a resource. Instead, consider returning a

Reviewer: If a client isn't authenticated they will get a `401 unauthorized` because the first thing we will do is check their token if they're requesting a protected resource. If it's a public endpoint with protected resources that vary depending on the caller we should follow this format.

Author: I removed this section for now. We can update it in the future.
